Subject: [dm-l] Conf. Anouncement "Codicology and Palaeography in the	Digital

Dear colleagues,
 
The Institute of Documentology and Scholarly Editing (IDE) organises an international symposium on "Codicology and Palaeography in the Digital Age" in Munich, 3/4 July 2009. Please find a brief description below and more information including the preliminary programme here: http://www.hgw.geschichte.uni-muenchen.de/aktuelles/termine/tagung_kod_pal/index.html#programm.
 
You are all very welcome to participate.
 
Kind regards,
Malte Rehbein, NUI Galway
 

International Conference

"Codicology and Palaeography in the Digital Age", Munich, 3-4 July 2009

The conference will focus on the challenges and consequences of using IT and the internet for codicological and palaeographic research. The authors of some selected articles of an anthology to be published this summer by the Institute for Documentology and Scholarly Editing (IDE) will present and discuss their excellent research results with scholars and experts working on ancient books and manuscripts. The presentations will be given on current issues in the following fields: manuscript catalogues and descriptions, digitization of manuscripts, collaborative systems of research on manuscripts, codicological databases, manuscript catalogues, research based on digital resources, e-learning in palaeography, palaeographic databases (characters, scripts, scribes), (semi-) automatic recognition of scripts and scribes, digital tools for transcriptions, visions and prototypes of other digital tools.
A panel discussion will be held with renowned exponents in the field of codicology and palaeography and contributors of cutting edge research to get an overview of the state of the art as well as to open up new perspectives of codicological and palaeographic research in the "digital age".

The conference is open to the public.

 
----
Malte Rehbein M.A.
Marie Curie Research Fellow

Moore Institute
National University of Ireland, Galway
Mob.:  +353 85 8144 685
_redacted_(a)nuigalway.ie
Web: http://www.denkstaette.de

--0026895199715630779-

