Subject: [dm-l] September workshops in: XML publishing, metadata,

Dear Digital medievalist list:
in view of the current discussion of collaborative transcriptions: the  
following workshops are likely to be of interest...

The Institute for Textual Scholarship and Electronic Editions,  
Birmingham, is hosting three workshops from September 22 to September  
25 this year.  Two are these are one day workshops:

1.  Tuesday 22 September: ‘SDPublisher: a new and different XML  
publishing system’ This workshop will present a hands-on introduction  
to SDPublisher, the new XML publishing system developed by people  
associated with ITSEE and Scholarly Digital Editions: see www.sd-editions.com/SDPublisher 
.
2. Wednesday 23 September: ‘The Virtual Manuscript Room: linking  
resources and scholarship on the web’.  This workshop will introduce  
the concepts behind the Virtual Manuscript Room project, and their  
implementation in the project, with particular emphasis on the use of  
metadata in the project to link together manuscript images,  
transcripts and resources related to them.
More details of both workshops can be found at http://itsee.bham.ac.uk/vmr/ITSEEworkshops.htm 
.

The third is a two day workshop, on the subject of "Tools for  
Collaborative Scholarly Editing over the Web", on Thursday 24 and  
Friday 25 September.  The first day, "Actions: the State of the Art"  
on Thursday 24 September, will be open to all: in this,   
representatives of projects around the world will give presentations  
on what they have done, are doing, or plan to do, to develop tools for  
collaborative scholarly editing over the Web.  The second day,  
'Problems and Futures' on Friday 25 September, will be a series of  
discussions on, firstly, three key emerging problem areas  
(intellectual property/scholarly authority; sustainability and  
interoperability), and, secondly, on the possible shapes of scholarly  
editing in the world to come.  Attendance at this second day will be  
by invitation only, with numbers restricted.  More details of this  
workshop can be found at http://itsee.bham.ac.uk/vmr/toolscfp.htm.

Attendance at all workshops is open to all (with the restriction to  
invitees for the Friday 25 September).  We have funding from the JISC  
(the Virtual Manuscript Room) and from the European Science Foundation  
(through the InterEdition project) and so are able to offer the  
workshops without charge.  We are interested in hearing from anyone  
who would like to present work they are doing in relation to  
collaborative editing tools on Thursday 24th, and from anyone who  
believes that they have something to contribute to the discussions on  
Friday 25th.

Limited cheap accommodation is available close to the workshop venues  
(in the Orchard Learning Resource Centre, Selly Oak) for those who act  
quickly.  We may be able to offer assistance with travel and  
accommodation, particularly to people giving presentations on Thursday  
24th and taking part in the discussions on Friday 25th.

To register, or learn more, please contact either Peter Robinson p.m.robinson(a)bham.ac.uk 
_redacted_(a)bham.ac.uk (the  
workshops organizer).

Peter Robinson
Institute for Textual Scholarship and Electronic Editing
Elmfield House, Selly Oak  Campus
University of Birmingham
Edgbaston B29 6LG
_redacted_(a)bham.ac.uk
p. +44 (0)121 4158441, f. +44 (0) 121 415 8376
www.itsee.bham.ac.uk





