Subject: [dm-l] Call for Papers: Codicology and Palaeography in the Digital

Dear (500) dm list members,

thank you in advance for considering the CfP below.

Call for Papers
Codicology and Palaeography in the Digital Age II -

It is only a year since the Institute of Documentology and Scholarly 
Editing (IDE) undertook an initiative entitled "Codicology and 
Palaeography in the Digital Age". Yet its first results have already 
been written up and published: in July 2009, the anthology "Codicology 
and Palaeography in the Digital Age" was launched at an international 
symposium in Munich. Here, experts from all over the world met as a 
community to share their knowledge, interests and concerns regarding 
digital issues in the various fields of manuscript research.

The feedback on both the anthology and the conference has been 
remarkably positive, not least from experts who are less acquainted with 
digital methods. For the first time, widely dispersed, cutting-edge 
research in the field of computer-aided codicology and palaeography can 
be surveyed and assessed as a whole phenomenon.

Yet, despite the fact that the anthology gives a broad insight into 
theory and practice, some relevant subjects and questions have not been 
covered. For this reason the IDE plans to publish a second volume of 
"Codicology and Palaeography in the Digital Age". The following 
questions in particular should now be addressed:

     * To what extent can quantitative approaches and the analysis of 
codicological databases be complemented by a systematic analysis of 
digital manuscript facsimiles?
     * How can manuscript-related research in the history of arts or in 
musicology be supported by digital tools and methodology?
     * How successfully can methods from the sciences be applied to the 
analysis of manuscripts (e.g. DNA analysis of parchment)?
     * How can electronic manuscript-catalogues and virtual libraries be 
brought together by means of comprehensive portals and hybrid research 
environments in order, for example, to facilitate exhaustive semantic 
studies?
     * How can existing digital tools for palaeographic transcription be 
promoted and improved? How can the range of applications be expanded? 
How can philological analysis and further use in literary studies be 
enhanced?
     * How can questions about the history of script be addressed by 
digital methods?
     * How can digital resources best supplement the originals, in the 
context of restoration and preservation? How can archives, libraries and 
museums take advantage of the opportunities, for public benefit?
     * To what extent are software-generated answers to codicological 
and palaeographic questions sustainable, verifiable and reliable?

Contributions which explore these and similar subjects (cf. previous 
CfP) are most welcome and can be submitted in English, French, German or 
Italian. Again, the launch of the volume will be accompanied by an 
international symposium.  Proposals of not more than 500 words should be 
_redacted_(a)ide.de or any of the editors listed 
below.

Organisation:

_redacted_(a)ria.ie
     * Christiane Fritze (Berlin Brandenburg Academy of Sciences and 
_redacted_(a)bbaw.de
     * Georg Vogeler (Ludwig-Maximilians-Universität Munich), 
_redacted_(a)lrz.uni-muenchen.de
     * Patrick Sahle (University of Cologne, Cologne Center for 
_redacted_(a)uni-koeln.de
     * Torsten Schaßan (Herzog August Library Wolfenbüttel), schass_redacted_(a)hab.de
     * Malte Rehbein (Julius-Maximilians-Universität Würzburg), 
_redacted_(a)uni-wuerzburg.de
     * Bernhard Assmann (Hochschulbibliothekszentrum des Landes 
_redacted_(a)ba.tuxomania.net

Dates:

30. November 2009: Abstract Submission Deadline
30. April 2010: Paper Submission Deadline

Kind regards,
Christiane

-- 
Christiane Fritze
The German Text Archive
Berlin-Brandenburg Academy of Sciences and Humanities
Jaegerstr. 22/23
10117 Berlin

phone:  +49 (0)30 20370 523
email:  fritze (at) bbaw (dot) de
http://www.deutsches-textarchiv.de

IDE: http://www.i-d-e.de

--4762794259779541068-

