Subject: [dm-l] Heroic Age 12 available

Hi all,

A note from Larry Swain. The new issue has a contribution from your 
humble correspondent that is based in part on a discussion we had on 
this list some time ago about the essential skills we need as humanists 
in the digital age.

The Editorial Board of <i>The Heroic Age</i> is very pleased to announce 
the publication of our twelfth issue. Point your browsers to 
http://www.heroicage.org <http://www.heroicage.org> and click on 
"Current Issue." Information elsewhere on the site has also been updated 
including the staff, links pages, and the Call for Papers. Please take a 
look; comments are always welcome. I have taken the liberty of pasting 
below the Letter from the Editor which has some items of interest in it.

§1. Sumer is icumen in! Or so said the poet, in agreement with the 
weather prognosticators for once. It is both a frustration and an 
embarrassment that the Winter issue is seeing the light of day as summer 
is fast approaching, but regrettably that is too often the state of 
affairs in academic publishing. But it isn't for lack of trying.

§2. So, I'd like to begin by mentioning the important people who 
volunteer their time to make The Heroic Age happen each issue. First, 
and foremost, there are three people who work very hard to make each 
issue come together, edited, polished, and coded. Deanna Forsman, our 
webster, formats and codes each page on our website, including each 
issue, taking time from her own academic duties and courses, family, and 
leisure to do so. Without her efforts, there would be no The Heroic Age. 
Eileen Joy has done an enormous amount of work for the journal. Not only 
is she now editing a column for us, but she has been a reader, an 
editor, and copy editor. It is not as if she is not busy elsewhere: in 
addition to her work for us, she has been editing volumes of essays 
(http://www.siue.edu/babel/ProspectusFragmentsVolume.htm 
<http://www.siue.edu/babel/ProspectusFragmentsVolume.htm>), putting 
together a new journal (www.palgrave-

journals.com/pmed/), blogging at In the Middle 
(www.inthemedievalmiddle.com), and other activities. I am very grateful 
for all her efforts with The Heroic Age. Last but certainly not least, 
Bill Schipper is our archivist and is another of those wonderful people 
whose helping hand is everywhere. In addition to his work with us, Bill 
is planning and hosting the next meeting of The International Society of 
Anglo-Saxonists, hosts and manages several well-known email lists in 
early Medieval Studies, and of course has his own work to undertake. My 
very grateful thanks to each of these three for their very hard work on 
my behalf.

§3. In addition to those three, others have had a hand in producing this 
issue who should be mentioned: Rolf Bremer, Tim Clarkson, Michael 
Treschow, Linda Malcor, Rolf Bremmer, Dan O'Donnell, and Michel Aaij 
have all undertaken editing at several levels. Finally, I will mention 
our readers, who will remain nameless for obvious reasons, but they know 
who they are. The only reward I can offer all these people is my sincere 
gratitude. If you have a moment whether via email or at a conference, 
please say "thanks" to these folk who have made this issue possible.

§4. Before turning to the issue itself, there are some exciting 
developments in connection with the links pages hosted at the journal's 
site. For this issue, the Anglo-Saxon links have been culled, weeded, 
and expanded. Ten years ago, in winter 1999, when I first split the 
Anglo-Saxon links off into their own subpage, I had grand plans to do 
the same for other subfields within the journal's purview. While it 
won't make it for Issue 12, there is at least one subsection and 
possibly two in development that will make debut appearances in Issue 13.

§5. More importantly, and in my view far more exciting, is a new 
development for some older but useful tools. As many know, the Richard 
Rawlinson Center at the Medieval Institute 
(http://www.wmich.edu/medieval <http://www.wmich.edu/medieval>) of 
Western Michigan University once hosted several online bibliographies 
and other projects that covered a range of subjects in Early Medieval 
Studies. A few years ago, some decisions were made that caused the 
removal of these tools from the Richard Rawlinson Center website, at 
that time intended to be a temporary situation. Several years later, 
however, the bibliographies remain inaccessible to the medieval 
researcher. These bibliographies are now in the process of being 
migrated to The Heroic Age site and will be linked off the HA links 
pages. There are many to thank for these developments. First, and 
foremost, Paul E. Szarmach, now Director of the Medieval Academy of 
America (http://www.medievalacademy.org 
<http://www.medievalacademy.org>), James M. Murray and Elizabeth 
Teviotdale of the Medieval Institute, and Bill Schipper and the good 
folks at Memorial University of Newfoundland (http://www.mun.ca 
<http://www.mun.ca>) are all owed a deep debt of gratitude for allowing 
this to happen and making the migration possible. As of this writing, 
the first such bibliography, Robert Fulk and Kari Ellen Gade's online 
edition of A Bibliography of Germanic Alliterative Meters, is almost 
ready to go to its new home and may be included in Issue 12's update 
links release.

§6. Turning to our regular features for this issue, I would like to draw 
your attention to a new column: Philological Inquiry written by Michael 
Drout and Scott Kleinman. The plan is for this to be a recurring column 
on philological approaches to the field. This first foray examines the 
word "Merovingian" in Beowulf in order to "illuminate culture, history 
and politics and shed new light on an old problem." Please join me in 
welcoming Mike and Scott and this new contribution to our columns.

§7. Eileen Joy has edited a second offering in our still new "babelisms" 
column. The column is devoted to publishing essays that explore 
convergences between early medieval and modern texts and ideas. In this 
issue's column, Helen T. Bennett offers a meditation on halls in 
Beowulf: "The Postmodern Hall in Beowulf: Endings Embedded in Beginnings."

§8. In Michel Aaij's Continental Business column, Michel reviews and 
discusses recent scholarly works on Rabanus Maurus, and Dan O'Donnell 
returns as columnist of Electronic Medievalia with "Byte me: 
Technological Education and the Humanities." This rounds out our 
recurring columns.

§9. Elsewhere in this issue's Forum, Jonathan Jarrett, well-known to 
many as the blogger behind A Corner of Tenth Century Europe 
(http://tenthmedieval.wordpress.com 
<http://tenthmedieval.wordpress.com>) and author of the forthcoming 
Pathways of Power in late-Carolingian Catalonia: Charters and 
Connections on a medieval frontier from the Royal Historical Society, 
contributes to our ongoing series about current developments in 
subfields of medieval studies. He offers us "Digitizing Numismatics: 
getting the Fitzwilliam Museum's coins to the world-wide web." As this 
issue's installment of our series introducing projects in the field, 
Margaret Cormack introduces us to her site and asks for readers' aid in 
a column titled "Saints and Sacred Space: An Interactive Database—A Call 
for Collaborators." Howard Wiseman offers a review essay on a fiction 
novel, Albion. Finally, Cullen Chandler offers a review essay discussing 
several recent books on things Carolingian in his contribution titled 
"Regna et Regnum: Studies of Regions within the Carolingian Empire."

§10. We have three excellent articles in this issue. Karmen Lenz 
examines the liturgy for St. Cuthbert in her Liturgical Readings of the 
Cathedral Office for Saint Cuthbert. This is followed by Douglas Simms 
who contributes an article focused on linguistics titled Heavy 
Hypermetrical Foregrounding in the Old Saxon Heliand and Genesis Poems. 
Rounding out the General Article section is a team-sponsored article 
titled King Alfred's Scholarly Writings and the Authorship of the First 
Fifty Prose Psalms by Michael Treschow, Paramjit Gill, and Tim B. Swartz 
that examines the attribution of these psalms to Alfred. These three 
very solid and interesting articles complete the issue.

§11. Looking ahead, Issue 13 is already well under way. Originally 
imagined as an issue to focus on medieval manuscripts, as it turns out, 
the issue will instead focus on translations from early medieval texts! 
Nonetheless, the issue will also include articles on Old Norse, Hincmar, 
and Arthur plus our usual columns.

§12. Issue 14 is in development as well. Its a twin-themed issue 
guest-edited by Andrew Rabin and Eileen Joy. Andrew is collecting and 
editing a group of essays on Early Medieval Law. Eileen has gathered and 
is editing a number of essays on the topic of theory and early medeival 
literature. I myself enjoy the juxtaposition of a traditional topic with 
a more cutting-edge, perhaps even edgeless topic and placing these in 
conversation. If all goes well, this issue should be published in early 
2010.

§13. The Heroic Age will celebrate its first decade in 2010. We formed 
the board in late 1999 and published our inaugural issue in Spring 2000, 
imagined then as appearing quarterly. That first issue was all about 
Arthur. Our fifteenth issue is scheduled to be published in mid-2010 and 
is seeking papers on "Arthur-related" topics, revisiting the edges of 
that first issue. The three sections currently planned for that issue 
will cover the world of Late Antique Britain and Gaul, connections with 
the rest of the continent in Late Antiquity, and new views of the 
Adventus Saxonum. The second section will examine Arthur and Arthurian 
literature. The third section will include studies of Late Antique and 
Early Medieval authors.

§14. Even further ahead, Issue 16 is already gathering papers. A special 
section on Alcuin is being guest-edited by James LePree. Issues 17 and 
18 are in the planning stages as well. One will be guest-edited by 
Jonathan Jarrett, mentioned above, on "Carolingian Border-lands" and 
Issue 18 will focus on Old French/Provencal/Occitan studies. That takes 
the editorial planning up through the beginning of 2012.

§15. As always, feedback is appreciated. I now turn you over to the 
issue itself, lest this note become as long as what it introduces! On 
behalf of the editorial board, our readers, and editors, I hope you the 
reader enjoy the issue.

-- 
Daniel Paul O'Donnell
Associate Professor of English
University of Lethbridge

Chair and CEO, Text Encoding Initiative (http://www.tei-c.org/)
Founding Director, Digital Medievalist Project (http://www.digitalmedievalist.org/)
Chair, Electronic Editions Advisory Board, Medieval Academy of America

Vox: +1 403 329-2377
Fax: +1 403 382-7191 (non-confidental)
Home Page: http://people.uleth.ca/~daniel.odonnell/



--3385697392286538270-

