Subject: [dm-l] Research Associate vacancy at King's College London,	Centre

Research Associate at King's College London, Centre for e-Research

The Centre for e-Research is seeking a Research Associate with strong 
technical and software development skills to work on e-research projects 
at the Centre. These projects may result in case studies, proofs of 
concept and pilots as well as in software for operational service, so 
the post offers an exciting opportunity to contribute both to the 
development of the digital and research infrastructure at King's and its 
collaborators, and to more exploratory development of innovative ideas 
solutions using cutting edge approaches. The post-holder will be 
expected to publish the results of research undertaken in relevant 
journals. Some current and past projects may be found at 
http://www.kcl.ac.uk/iss/cerch/projects/.

Approximately 75% of the post-holder's work (on average over the 2 years 
of the appointment) will be dedicated to the SAWS (Sharing Ancient 
Wisdoms) project, an EU-funded international collaboration that is 
exploring ways of exploiting the digital environment for creating, 
publishing and interacting with selected digital collections of 
manuscripts and texts, specifically Greek and Arabic “wisdom 
literature”. These anthologies of wise or useful sayings were widely 
circulated throughout antiquity and the middle ages, and they raise 
particular challenges at a technical and information modelling level due 
to the complex network of interrelationships among them and among their 
component parts. The SAWS project requires an imaginative research 
associate capable of researching, devising and developing innovative 
methodologies and tools for creating these complex resources, for 
expressing relationships between them, and for publishing, visualising 
and exploring them. The remaining 25% will be spent on other projects at 
the Centre, depending on ongoing requirements and the interests of the 
appointee.

The candidate will preferably have an education in information science 
or computer science, or a humanities degree with a strong technical 
component. Due to the exploratory nature of the work, the role will 
require problem-solving ability and a high degree of initiative, as well 
as flexibility and a keenness to learn. Knowledge of Java, web 
development technologies (e.g. XML, Django, Ajax) and web service 
technologies is essential. Experience of linked data/semantic web 
technologies (e.g. RDF, OWL), and of other programming languages (e.g. 
Python, Ruby), would be an advantage.

This is a full-time position, initially for a period of 24 months. 
Salary for the position will be at an appropriate point of Grade 6, 
currently £33,193 to £39,185 per annum (inclusive of a £2,323 London 
allowance). Benefits include a contributory final salary pension scheme, 
subsidised gym membership and 27 days of annual leave, 4 college closure 
days, plus public holidays.

For more details and an application pack please see 
http://www.kcl.ac.uk/depsta/pertra/vacancy/external/pers_detail.php?jobindex=10378. 
_redacted_(a)kcl.ac.uk. All 
correspondence should clearly state the job title and reference number 
G6/QLJ/408/11-JT. For an informal discussion of the post please contact 
_redacted_(a)kcl.ac.uk, or 020 7848 1970.

The closing date is: 12 July 2011

-- 
Dr. Charlotte Tupman
Research Associate
Department of Digital Humanities
King's College London
26-29 Drury Lane
London
WC2B 5RL

Tel: +44 (0)20 7848 7145

www.kcl.ac.uk/ddh

--6026708097997018584-

