Subject:

Please find below the Call for Proposals for pre-conferences, workshops and tutorials for the Digital Humanities 2012 conference, in Hamburg Germany. Note that the deadline for this call (Midnight GMT on 1 November - please check equivalent time in your time zone) is the same as the deadline for posters, papers and panel sessions announced a few weeks ago. Deadlines will be firm.

All submissions can be made through the ConfTool website at https://secure.digitalhumanities.org (see instructions below) and do check the DH2012 conference website for news in the coming weeks: http://www.dh2012.uni-hamburg.de/

Paul Spence
Chair of International Programme Committee for 2012

-------------------------------------------------------------------

Call for proposals: Pre-conference Workshops and Tutorials Alliance of Digital Humanities Organizations Digital Humanities 2012 Hosted by University of Hamburg
16-22 July 2012
http://www.dh2012.uni-hamburg.de/	

Proposal deadline:  November 1, 2011 (Midnight GMT)

I. General Information

The International Program Committee invites submissions of proposals of no more than 1500 words for pre-conferences or specialized Tutorials and Workshops on any aspect of digital humanities, from information technology to problems in humanities research and teaching. Tutorials are typically a half day to a full day; workshops and pre-conferences may be one day or more.  We particularly welcome submissions relating to interdisciplinary work and on new developments in the field, and we encourage submissions relating in some way to the theme of the 2012 conference, 'Digital Diversity: Cultures, languages and methods' <http://www.dh2012.uni-hamburg.de/>.

Proposals might, for example, relate to the following aspects of digital humanities:

- computer-based research and computer applications in literary, linguistic, cultural and historical studies, including electronic literature, public humanities, and interdisciplinary aspects of modern scholarship;

- the digital arts, architecture, music, film, theatre, new media, and related areas;

- research issues, including data mining, information design and modelling, software studies, and humanities research enabled through the digital medium.

- digital humanities and diversity

- libraries, archives, and the creation, delivery, management, and preservation of humanities digital resources

- text analysis, corpora, corpus linguistics, language processing, language learning, and endangered languages

- the role of digital humanities in academic curricula

The range of topics covered by digital humanities can also be consulted in the journal of the associations: Literary and Linguistic Computing (LLC), Oxford University Press.

Participants in Workshops or Tutorials will be expected to register for the full conference as well, paying the regular registration fee.  There will be additional fees of roughly 40-50 Euros per half-day for participants in tutorials and workshops, with a minimum attendance of approximately 10 participants each, in order to ensure that these events cover their own costs.

The deadline for submitting proposals to the Program Committee is November 1, 2011.  All submissions will be refereed.  Presenters will be notified of acceptance by December 15, 2011.  See below for full details on submitting proposals.

Proposals for non-refereed or vendor demonstrations should be discussed direc_redacted_(a)uni-hamburg.de) as soon as possible.

For more information on the conference in general, please visit the conference web site, <http://dh2011.stanford.edu/>.

II. Pre-Conference Tutorials

Proposals for Tutorials should provide the following information:

1. A title and brief description of the tutorial content and its relevance to the DH community (not more than 1500 words).

2. A brief outline of the tutorial structure showing that the tutorial's core content can be covered in a half-day tutorial (approximately 3 hours, plus breaks).  In exceptional cases, full-day tutorials may be supported as well.

3. The names, postal addresses, phone numbers, and email addresses of the tutorial instructors, including a one-paragraph statement of their research interests and areas of expertise.

4. A list of previous venues and approximate audience sizes, if the same or a similar tutorial has been given elsewhere; otherwise an estimate of the audience size.  (DH Tutorials are expected to be self-financing.)

5. Special requirements for technical support.

Proposals will be submitted via the DH2012 conference registration application, ConfTool, at the address https://secure.digitalhumanities.org/ no later than November 1, 2011.

TUTORIAL SPEAKER RESPONSIBILITIES

Accepted tutorial speakers will be notified by December 15, 2011, and must then provide final draft abstracts of their tutorials for inclusion in the conference registration material by February 1, 2011.  The description should be in two formats: an ASCII version that can be included in email announcements and published on the conference web site, and a Word or ODT (not PDF) version for inclusion in the electronic proceedings (detailed instructions to follow).

III. Pre-Conference Workshops

Proposals for workshops should provide the following information:

1. A title and brief description (of not more than 1500 words) of the workshop topic and its motivation (i.e., its relevance to DH).

2. A description of target audience and expected number of participants.

3. The intended length and format of the workshop (minimum half-day; maximum one and a half days).

4. A budget proposal (DH Workshops are expected to be self-financing.)

5. Dates for submission deadline (if there is to be a CfP) and notification of acceptances.

6. A list of individuals who have agreed to be part of the workshop program committee if the workshop proposal is accepted.

7. Full postal address, phone number, e-mail and fax of the workshop contact person.

8. Special requirements (e.g. computer infrastructure or audio equipment).

Proposals will be submitted via the DH2012 conference registration application, ConfTool, at the address https://secure.digitalhumanities.org/ no later than November 1, 2011.  You will be notified about the decision to accept or reject the proposal by December 15, 2011.

IV. Format of the Proposals

All proposals must be submitted electronically using the online submission form in the ConfTool system no later than November 1, 2011.  Anyone who has previously used the ConfTool system to submit proposal or reviews should use their existing account rather than setting up a new one.  Information for new users is available at the ConfTool site.  If anyone has forgotten their user na_redacted_(a)kcl.ac.uk>.

V.  Information about the conference venue

Hamburg on the river Elbe has about 1.8 million inhabitants within the city limits, making the old Hanseatic merchant city Germany's second largest metropolis. Hamburg is characterized by its port, its international orientation and a cosmopolitan flair. 

The University of Hamburg was founded in 1919. Today the Faculty of the Humanities is home to over 10,000 students. Since its inception Hamburg University has maintained a strong focus on foreign languages and cultures. To foster and to explore such diversity is a key task of the Humanities - and to provide theories, methods and tools to this end poses a particularly interesting challenge to the Digital Humanities. We hope you will join in the discussion on "Digital Diversity" at the DH2012 and look forward to seeing you in Hamburg!

VI. International Program Committee

Susan Brown (SDH-SEMI - Vice Chair)
Arianna Ciula (ALLC)
Tanya Clement (ACH)
Michael Eberle-Sinatra (SDH-SEMI)
Dot Porter (ACH)
Jan Rybicki (ALLC)
Jon Saklofske (SDH-SEMI)
Paul Spence (ALLC - Chair)
Tomoji Tabata (ALLC)
Katherine Walter (ACH)
Jan Christoph Meister (ex officio, Local Host)  



--7651675212636222632-

