Subject: [dm-l] Summer Language Study 

Please pass along to any and all interested parties and forgive
duplications:

Hello all, I am pleased to off the two courses listed below this summer
online. There are both undergraduate and graduate options. If you are
not a Bemidji State University student, directions on admission can be
found here: http://www.bemidjistate.edu/academics/distance/admissions/
The ability to use basic software is required, and much will be
delivered through D2L, a Blackboard like software that the student will
be able to access once enrolled for the class. I’m looking forward to
seeing some of you there!

 ENGL 3930/5930 Intensive Latin Online 2013

Dr. Larry Swain 

Bemidji State University 

 Course Description: This course is an intensive introduction to Latin,
 covering in nine weeks a full academic year’s worth of the language.
 This will require a lot of work and dedication on the part of both
 instructor and student. By the end, however, the student should be able
 to read Latin prose with the aid of a grammar and a good dictionary or
 lexicon. There will be a great deal of memorization. Via our online
 tools, discussion board, online office hours, recorded lectures, live
 lectures, exercise sharing and corrections, and Q&amp;A sessions
 delivered via D2L, power point presentations, and other tools, we will
 go through the entire text and master basic Latin. The course will
 require a commitment from the student. A MINIMUM of 2 hours and
 preferably 4-6 hours a day will need to be spent working on the
 exercises, in class, interacting with the professor etc. Because
 delivery is online rather than in a traditional classroom, the need for
 each individual student to apply him- or herself diligently daily is
 even more important than in a face-to-face class.  We will meet
 virtually in an online classroom for each lesson to explain the grammar
 lesson, to do some in class exercises, to correct exercises, and so on,
 for approximately an hour, more if necessary or if student interest.
 The rest of your time will be spent working on exercises, translating
 sample passages of actual Latin, memorizing the forms. 

Texts: Intensive Latin by Floyd Moreland and Rita Fleischer 

Other materials as assigned

(I will have advice about students’ dictionaries, additional grammar
aids in print and online and so on as well throughout the course). 

Highly Recommended: English Grammar for Students of Latin: The Study
Guide for Those Learning Latin by Norma Goldman and Ladislas Szymanski 

This course is six credits; I think a full year of Latin deserves a full
year of credit.  The above URL at the top is the Center for Extended
Learning Admissions website.  This URL is for the tuition calculator:
http://www.bemidjistate.edu/offices/business/tuition_fees/tuition_calculator/. 

 

 

 

 

 

English 3390/5390: 

Intensive Old English Summer 2013

Dr. Larry J. Swain

 Bemidji State University 

This seminar is intended to accomplish three related objectives: 1) to
learn to read Old English and translate texts in Old English with
relative ease 2) to have an overview of Anglo-Saxon Literature and 3) to
place the language and literature into the historical, cultural,
theological, intellectual, and material contexts. That's a tall order.
But like those we read who endure heroically, so shall we: we will be
able to by semester's end read Old English literature in Old English,
both prose and poetry. The approach is simple. This is an intensive
course, a full 15 week course offered over 9 weeks in Summer via the
Internet. We will cover approximately two chapters of the textbook each
week, and during the last couple of weeks we will be working exclusively
in translating Old English texts.

 

Textbooks: Reading Old English: An Introduction by Robert Hasenfratz and
Thomas Jambeck

A History of Old English Literature by Michael Alexander 

Recommended: The Anglo-Saxons James Campbell 

_redacted_(a)bemidjistate.edu

-- 
  Larry Swain
_redacted_(a)operamail.com
Bemidji State University

-- 
http://www.fastmail.fm - Accessible with your email software
                          or over the web



