Subject: [dm-l] DiXiT - Marie Curie fellowships now open for application

** Apologies for cross-posting **

The Digital Scholarly Editions Initial Training Network (DiXiT) offers  
12 Marie Curie fellowships to early stage researchers (ESRs) for a  
period of 3 years and 5 Marie Curie fellowships to experienced  
researchers (ERs) for a period of 12 to 20 months.

Fellowships are now open for applications. For details visit:
http://dixit.uni-koeln.de/fellows.html

Please circulate widely!

About DiXiT:

DiXiT (Digital Scholarly Editions Initial Training Network) is an  
international network of high-profile institutions from the public and  
the private sector that are actively involved in the creation and  
publication of digital scholarly editions.

DiXiT offers a coordinated training and research programme for early  
stage researchers and experienced researchers in the  
multi-disciplinary skills, technologies, theories, and methods of  
digital scholarly editing.

DiXiT is funded under Marie Curie Actions within the European  
Commission's 7th Framework Programme and runs from September 2013  
until August 2017.

For more information visit the DiXiT website:
http://dixit.uni-koeln.de

APPLICATION

Academic Requirements:

Early-Stage Researchers must be in the first 4 years of their research  
careers and not yet have a doctoral degree. This is measured from the  
date when they obtained the degree which would formally entitle them  
to embark on a doctorate, irrespective of whether or not a doctorate  
is envisaged.

Experienced Researchers must be in possession of a doctoral degree or  
have at least 4 years of full-time equivalent research experience. At  
the time of recruitment by the host organisation an experienced  
researcher must also have less than 5 years of full-time equivalent  
research experience.

It should be noted that an individual researcher may not be recruited  
first as an ESR and subsequently as an ER in the same project.

Marie Curie ITN mobility requirement:

Researchers can be of any nationality. They are required to undertake  
trans-national mobility (i.e. move from one country to another) when  
taking up their appointment. One general rule applies to the  
appointment of researchers:

At the time of recruitment by the host organisation, researchers must  
not have resided or carried out their main activity (work, studies,  
etc) in the country of their host organisation for more than 12 months  
in the 3 years immediately prior to the reference date.

Short stays such as holidays and/or compulsory national service are  
not taken into account.

Application process:

Please note that applications from any qualified applicants,  
regardless of gender, ethnicity or country of origin are welcome if  
they meet the eligibility requirements.

Applicants should send their applications directly to the institution  
hosting the desired fellowship. Applications for more than one post  
are welcome – however, multiple applications should be indicated via  
the obligatory DiXiT application form (which has to be submitted  
separately from the application documents send to the hosting  
institution).

Application deadline:

The deadline for applications is the 10th December 2013.
Please note that the four remaining ER fellowships will start at a  
later date and the possibility of application will be announced  
accordingly.

For further details visit http://dixit.uni-koeln.de/fellows.html



-- 
Dr. Franz Fischer
Cologne Center for eHumanities / Thomas-Institut
Universität zu Köln, Universitätsstr. 22, D-50923 Köln
Telefon: +49 - (0)221 - 470 - 4056
_redacted_(a)uni-koeln.de

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
http://www.cceh.uni-koeln.de
http://www.i-d-e.de
http://www.thomasinstitut.uni-koeln.de

http://dixit.uni-koeln.de
http://guillelmus.uni-koeln.de
http://confessio.ie



