Subject: [dm-l] Medieval and Modern Manuscript Studies in the Digital Age

* Apologies for cross-posting *

Medieval and Modern Manuscript Studies in the Digital Age (MMSDA) - 
DiXiT Camp 1
28 April – 2 May 2014, Cambridge & London

We are very pleased to announce the fifth year of this course, funded 
by the Digital Scholarly Editions Initial Training Network (DiXiT),  and 
run by DiXiT with the Institute of English Studies (London), the 
University of Cambridge, the Warburg Institute, and King’s College 
London. For the first time, the course will run in two parallel 
strands: one on medieval and the other on modern manuscripts.

The course is open to any arts and humanities doctoral students  working 
with manuscripts. It involves five days of intensive training  on the 
analysis, description and editing of medieval or modern  manuscripts to 
be held jointly in Cambridge and London. Participants  will receive a 
solid theoretical foundation and hands-on experience in  cataloguing and 
editing manuscripts for both print and digital formats.

The first half of the course involves morning classes and then 
afternoon visits to libraries in Cambridge and London. Participants 
will view original manuscripts and gain practical experience in 
applying the morning’s themes to concrete examples. In the second half 
we will address the cataloguing and description of manuscripts in a 
digital format with particular emphasis on the Text Encoding  Initiative 
(TEI). These sessions will also combine theoretical  principles and 
practical experience and include supervised work on  computers.

The course is free of charge but is open only to doctoral students  (PhD 
or equivalent). It is aimed at those writing dissertations  relating to 
medieval or modern manuscripts, especially those working  on literature, 
art or history. Some bursaries will be available for  travel and 
accommodation. There are eighteen vacancies across the  medieval and 
modern strands, and preference will be given to those  considered by the 
selection panel likely to benefit most from the  course. Applications 
close on 14 February 2014 but early registration  is strongly recommended.

For further details see http://dixit.uni-koeln.de/mmsda.html
_redacted_(a)uni-koeln.de

- Please circulate widely! -

-- 
Dr. Franz Fischer
Cologne Center for eHumanities / Thomas-Institut
Universität zu Köln, Universitätsstr. 22, D-50923 Köln
Telefon: +49 - (0)221 - 470 - 4056
_redacted_(a)uni-koeln.de

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
http://www.cceh.uni-koeln.de
http://www.i-d-e.de
http://www.thomasinstitut.uni-koeln.de

http://dixit.uni-koeln.de
http://guillelmus.uni-koeln.de
http://confessio.ie

--6526272363954763442-

