Subject: [dm-l] CFP: Digital Approaches and the Ancient World

Dear Medievalists,
Please see the call for papers below, in which the "ancient world" is 
defined both geographically and chronoligically more widely than the 
classical Mediterranean, and so explicitly overlaps with what is 
_redacted_(a)m sure you realize, a 
great many digital humanities methods applied to classical and mediaeval 
topics are likely to be of broad mutual interest. I hope therefore some 
of you might consider submitting to this issue. Please circulate this 
call widely.
Many thanks,
Gabby


*Digital Approaches and the Ancient World*
A themed issue of the Bulletin of the Institute of Classical Studies

Editors:
_redacted_(a)sas.ac.uk
_redacted_(a)arts.kuleuven.be
_redacted_(a)oerc.ox.ac.uk

Call for papers:
We invite colleagues all around the world and at all stages of their 
careers to submit papers on the topic of “Digital Approaches and the 
Ancient World” to a themed issue of the Bulletin of the Institute of 
Classical Studies. The topic is to be construed as widely as possible, 
to include not only the history, archaeology, language, literature and 
thought of the ancient and late antique Mediterranean world, but also of 
antiquity more widely, potentially including, for example, South and 
East Asian, Sub-Saharan African or Pre-Columbian American history. 
Digital approaches may also vary widely, to include methodologies from 
the digital humanities and information studies, quantitative methods 
from the hard sciences, or other innovative and transdisciplinary themes.

Papers will be fully peer reviewed and selected for inclusion based not 
only on their research quality and significance, but especially on their 
ability to engage profoundly both with classics/history academic 
readers, and scholars from digital or informatic disciplines. We are 
keen to see papers that clearly lay out their disciplinary and 
interdisciplinary methodological approaches, and present and interpret 
the full range of scholarly and practical outcomes of their research.

We encourage the use of and direct reference to open online datasets in 
your papers. BICS is not currently an open access publication, but 
self-archiving of pre-press papers is permitted, and the editors believe 
in the transparency and accountability that comes with basing scientific 
work on open data.

To submit an article to this themed issue, please send your full paper 
of 4,000–8,000 words in Microsoft Word doc, docx or rtf format, to 
_redacted_(a)sas.ac.uk>, along with a 150 word abstract, by January 
31, 2016. You do not need to follow BICS style for the initial 
submission, but please note that the final version of accepted articles 
will need to be formatted to adhere to our style guide 
(http://www.icls.sas.ac.uk/sites/default/files/files/STYLE-V15.pdf).

If you have any questions about this issue, please feel free to contact 
any of the editors informally.



-- 
Dr Gabriel BODARD
Reader in Digital Classics

Institute of Classical Studies
University of London
Senate House
Malet Street
London WC1E 7HU

_redacted_(a)sas.ac.uk
T: +44 (0)20 78628752

http://digitalclassicist.org/

--6869067500622921539-

