Subject: [dm-l] Job opening in Cologne: Research Fellow

Dear medievalists,

On behalf of my colleague Andreas Berger from the Thomas Institute at 
the Univeristy of Cologne I forward this exciting job announcement: 
CoffeeScript, Arabic, LAMP via CLI...

Best wishes,
Franz

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 

Jop opening: Research Fellow (75% TVL 13, 3 years) in Digital Humanities 
to enhance and develop a virtual research environment in cooperation 
with the Fraunhofer-Institute.

The position is tied to a project and limited to a period of three 
years, during which the existing digital infrastructure of the Digital 
Averroes Research Environment (DARE) is to be enhanced with a prototype 
of an automated layout recognizance tool, which is to be developed in 
cooperation with the Fraunhofer IAIS. Furthermore, additional advanced 
solutions especially for the research environment`s user interface and 
search engine are to be created.

Responsibilities/Tasks:
The Research Fellow in Digital Humanities will be responsible for 
maintaining, developing and enhancing the DARE virtual research 
environment. Including:
-Maintenance and new solutions for existing Front End and Back End
-Managing the data server and the ever expanding TEI-xml based files
-Development focus on User Interface and enhanced search algorithms

Furthermore, the Research Fellow is to cooperate with the Fraunhofer 
IAIS in developing automated layout recognizance options for an 
existing, manual annotation tool, including:
-Providing sophisticated test case scenarios from existing database of 
mediaeval manuscript material
-Integrating and testing of prototypes in the DARE infrastructure

Necessary Qualifications:
-University degree in a humanities discipline and/or in the field of 
information technology, and experience in historical research;
-Expertise in working methods in the digital humanities:
-Metadata standards, especially the TEI
-Content management systems (Drupal 7)
-Programming languages (PHP, JavaScript,CoffeeScript)
-Markup languages (XML, HTML)
-Search engines / information retrieval (Apache Solr, Lucene)
-Linux-Administration (Debian, LAMP via CLI, git/svn)
-Compiling (Free Pascal)
-Experience in data modelling and data management
-At least basic knowledge of mediaeval material philology
-Good contacts in the networks of the Digital Humanities and the ability 
to develop humanities research infrastructures and research projects 
with partners at other institutions and in other disciplines
-A very good command of written and spoken English or German

Desired Qualifications:
-Language skills in Latin (and/or Hebrew and/or Arabic)
-Experience in preparing grant applications
-Experience in web design

Administrative Details:
The Thomas-Institute welcomes applications from scholars from all around 
the world, provided the applicants are willing to relocate to Cologne 
for the duration of the project. The Thomas-Institute is a 
family-friendly, equal opportunity employer and allows for flexible 
working hours and a measure of telework.
The position is advertised for 30 hours per week (75% of standard 
working time) and salary according to TVL-13. The contract will cover a 
time frame of 36 months; a possible further employment will be depending 
on future successful grant applications.

Contact/Deadline:
Please submit your application (CV, list of publications and/or work 
samples, links to online projects, certification of degrees earned, 
references) as one PDF (5 MB maximum) along with a separate cover letter 
of one page that briefly outlines your experience and qualifications by 
email to:
_redacted_(a)uni-koeln.de
by September 20th, 2015.

Should you have questions about the position, please contact Andreas 
Berger via E-Mail or Telephone (0049 221 470 2391).

Interviews can be conducted via Skype. Should you prefer this, please 
indicate so in your cover letter.
We are looking forward to your application!



-- 
Andreas Berger, M.A.

Thomas-Institut
Universität zu Köln / University of Cologne
Universitätsstraße 22
50 923 Köln / Cologne, Germany

Tel. +49 - (0)221 - 470 2391

--8303170666643717160-

