Subject: [dm-l] CfP Kalamazoo "Digital Methods: Computer-Assisted Approaches

Event: 51st International Congress on Medieval Studies
Place: Western Michigan University, Kalamazoo, MI
Date: 12th-15th May 2016
Needed: You ;-)

Dear all,

Just to let you know that there are still a few days left to submit an abstract for one of the two 
sessions proudly sponsored by the DigiPal/Models of Authority team:

Session 1: "Digital Methods 1: Computer-Assisted Approaches to Palaeography"

Session 2: "Digital Methods 2: Computer-Assisted Approaches to Manuscript Studies"

Interested? Then send us an abstract! It's all pretty simple really. All you need to do is read the blurbs below, 
decide which session suits you best, and then send an abstract of a couple of hundred words or so (we won't 
_redacted_(a)kcl.ac.uk by ish 15th September 2015.

And if you fill in a Participant Information Form, and send that too, we'd be very grateful. You can find the PIF here: 
http://www.wmich.edu/medieval/congress/submissions/index.html#PIF

And if for some curious reason we don't accept your abstract, never fear: any surplus proposals will be sent to the 
Congress committee for consideration for general sessions.

Looking forward to reading your abstracts, Stewart Brookes

"Digital Methods 1: Computer-Assisted Approaches to Palaeography"

Taking palaeography and codicology as its focus, this session will consider how computer-assisted techniques 
might advance our understanding of the handwriting of the scribes who were producing charters, homilies, farming 
memoranda and other aspects of the written culture of medieval Britain. Utilising computer-based resources for the 
study of medieval handwriting, the papers will investigate the influence of scriptoria and the politics of writing style; 
the significance of scribal choices such as cursive or set; and whether text type can be said to determine the style 
of writing.

"Digital Methods 2: Computer-Assisted Approaches to Manuscript Studies"

The large number of initiatives to digitise medieval manuscripts mean that we now have unprecedented access to 
medieval texts. In many ways, this explosion of knowledge can be compared to the early years of the printing press. 
But how might we best utilise this growing body of material? This session will explore the potential for the computer-assisted 
study of medieval manuscripts; discuss the intersection of manuscript studies and Digital Humanities; and share 
methodologies. The topics under discussion will include the encoding and transcription of medieval texts, the practical 
and theoretical consequences of the use of digital surrogates and the visualisation of manuscript evidence and data.
— 
Dr Stewart J Brookes
Department of Digital Humanities
King's College London

