Subject: [dm-l] TEI Conference 2015: call for papers, panels, posters, demos

Dear colleagues, 

Emmanuelle Morlock and I will have the pleasure and responsibility to host the upcoming 2015 Text Encoding Initiative Conference in Lyon, France, Oct. 28-31. We would like to bring to your attention the call for papers recently published on the TEI website. 
We look forward to seeing you in Lyon for the conference! 
Marjorie Burghart and Emmanuelle Morlock



https://textencodinginitiative.wordpress.com/2015/03/30/call-for-papers-tei-members-meeting-and-conference-2015/

Call for Papers: TEI Members’ Meeting and Conference 2015
Posted on 2015-03-30 by pauloshea86	
Text Encoding Initiative: connect, animate, innovate
2015 Annual Members’ Meeting and Conference of the TEI Consortium

Call for Papers, Panels, Posters, and Demonstrations

28–31 October 2015

Lyon, France

Deadline: Monday 27 April 2015

Submissions: https://www.conftool.net/###

We invite proposals for individual papers, panel sessions, posters, and demonstrations for the 15th annual Conference and Members’ Meeting of the Text Encoding Initiative Consortium (TEI—http://www.tei-c.org).

The power of the TEI is realized in interactions, between texts, between programs, between practices, and between members of its community. This theme invites considerations of technical and social applications and approaches, both to the practice of encoding and to the development of local and international communities of use. It includes training in the TEI and related areas, for example incorporating the digital into traditional forms of editing. It addresses integration of TEI-encoded texts at scale, for example in libraries and large corpora, and acknowledges that new research questions and external developments require continuous innovation.

 
Possible Topics

This list is not exclusive.

    Connecting the TEI
        TEI across corpora, languages, and cultures
        TEI, formal ontologies and the Semantic Web
        TEI and beyond: interactions, interchange, integrations and interoperability
        TEI in galleries, libraries, archives, and museums

    Animating the TEI
        TEI outreach, within and between communities of practice
        TEI, editors, readers, collaborators
        TEI and sustainability
        TEI and visualization
    Innovating with the TEI

    TEI tools for analysis, publication, and infrastructures
    TEI environments
    TEI at scale
    TEI, refinement, simplification, and extension

Submissions

All submissions should include a title, the abstract(s), a brief biography of all the author(s)/speaker(s), and up to five keywords.

 
Word counts apply to the text of the abstract, excluding titles, biographies and keywords.

Individual papers

Speakers will be given 30 minutes each: 20 minutes for presentation, and 10 minutes for discussion. Proposals should not exceed 300 words.

Panel sessions

Panels will be given 1.5 hours, which can be used flexibly to include, for example, 3 individual papers followed by questions, or a roundtable discussion. Panel proposals must include a list of speakers. Proposals for 3 papers should not exceed 3 x 300 words, plus a 200-word introduction. Proposals for discussion panels should not exceed 600 words.

Posters and demonstrations

A dedicated poster session will provide poster or tool presenters with tables, poster boards, and wireless Internet access. Proposals for posters or tool demonstrations should not exceed 300 words.

Workshops

Workshops will be held before the conference, 26-27 October 2015. If you are interested in running a workshop at the Conference, please see the [ Call for Workshops ].
Working groups

If you are interested in holding a working group meeting during the Conferenc_redacted_(a)tei-c.org.
Language
Proposals may be submitted in English, French, German, Italian, Japanese, and Spanish. Accepted proposals will be asked to provide an abstract in English. If you need help with this, please contact the programme committee for advice. Presentations may be given in English or French.
Submission Procedure

Proposals must be submitted online, uploading them to https://www.conftool.net/###. You will need a (free) account to submit a proposal. All proposals will be peer-reviewed by the Programme Committee.

 

The deadline for submissions is Monday 27 April 2015.

Acceptances will be notified by Friday 29 May 2015.
Conference Proceedings

Conference papers and posters will be considered for inclusion in the peer-reviewed conference proceedings, edited as a special issue of the Journal of the Text Encoding Initiative.

_redacted_(a)tei-c.org
 

On behalf of the Programme Committee
Pip Willcox

 
2015 TEI Members’ Meeting and Conference Programme Committee

Anne Baillot
Peter Boot
Marjorie Burghart
James Cummings
Orietta Da Rold
Martin de la Iglesia
Franz Fischer
Stéfanie Gehrke
Mathias Goebel
Susanne Haaf
Serge Heiden
Emmanuelle Morlock
Martin Mueller
Kiyonori Nagasaki
Suzanne Paul
Dot Porter
Judith Siefring
Pip Willcox (chair)
Adam Wyner

--7311448040529392190-

