Subject: [dm-l] tf-8?b?4oCcSmVkbGk6?
Dear colleagues,

The team of the ERC project “The Early Islamic Empire at Work” based  
at Hamburg are very pleased to announce the publication of the second  
issue of the Early Islamic Empire Working Paper Series. “Jedli: A  
Textual Analysis Toolbox for Digitized Arabic Texts” by José Haro  
Peralta and Peter Verkinderen is now available for download at  
https://www.islamic-empire.uni-hamburg.de/en/publications-tools/publications/working-paper-series.html. The working paper contains a detailed manual of how to use Jedli, a toolbox developed by the two authors to help scholars make use of digitized Arabic texts more quickly and  
efficiently.

Scholars working with Arabic texts are often confronted with an  
extraordinary number of sources at their disposal. Manually  
researching these texts can take an inordinate amount of time.  
Although many of the primary sources in Arabic have been available in  
digital form for some time now, the potential inherent in this  
development has not been fully realized yet. Inspired by the advent of  
digital humanities, the project team have started developing a number  
of tools for text mining and data analysis that more fully take  
advantage of the digitization of Arabic sources.

Jedli is a toolbox that currently contains three distinct search  
functions: the indexer, the highlighter, and the context search. The  
indexer enables you to produce a custom index of any word in a text  
(or any number of words in any number of texts at the same time),  
complete with references to the specific volume and page number of  
each occurrence, and a user-defined amount of context around the  
search word. The highlighter marks any number of search terms in  
different colors according to a user-defined color scheme, to help you  
identify relevant text segments more quickly. The context search  
allows you to restrict search results to contexts pertinent to your  
research through the combination of customized (lists of) search terms.

The current version of Jedli can now be downloaded for free from our  
website at  
https://www.islamic-empire.uni-hamburg.de/en/publications-tools/digital-tools/jedli.html. We also provide a directory containing a collection of digitized Arabic texts that we have already converted into the format required for Jedli to work  
(.txt).

The current version only runs on Windows platforms, but we are working  
to ensure that it will run on other operating systems in the near  
future as well. If you encounter any bugs or problems during the  
execution of the program, or have requests for additional features,  
_redacted_(a)gmail.com and/or  
_redacted_(a)uni-hamburg.de.

With best wishes from Hamburg,
Hannah Hagemann



Dr. Hannah-Lena Hagemann
Research Associate, ERC Project "The Early Islamic Empire at Work -
The View From the Regions Toward the Center"
Universität Hamburg, Asien-Afrika-Institut
Edmund-Siemers-Allee 1, Rm 16
20146 Hamburg, Germany
T: +49 40 42838 3095
_redacted_(a)uni-hamburg.de
W: https://www.islamic-empire.uni-hamburg.de/



