Subject:

***Apologies for cross-posting***

The Thomas-Institute at the Faculty of Arts and Humanities at the  
University of Cologne invites applications for four full-time  
positions as Research Associates, one of which in Digital Humanities,  
three in Arabic, Hebrew, and Latin Philosophy, starting May 1, 2016.

The Thomas-Institute conducts a long-term project of critical editions  
of the writings on Natural Philosophy by the Arabic philosopher  
Averroes (Ibn Rušd, 1126–1198) and his immediate predecessor Avempace  
(Ibn Bāǧǧa, c. 1070–1139): "Averroes (Ibn Rushd) and the Arabic,  
Hebrew, and Latin Reception of Aristotle’s Philosophy of Nature". The  
project will produce a total of 18 critical editions of the preserved  
Arabic original texts and their medieval Hebrew and Latin  
translations, which will be published both in print and as digital  
editions. Starting in 2016, the project is scheduled to run for 25  
years, and has received funding for the entire period of its duration  
from the North Rhine-Westphalian Academy of Sciences, Humanities and  
the Arts. Directors: Prof. Dr. Andreas Speer, Jun.-Prof. Dr. David  
Wirmer.

The Digital Humanities position assigned to this project has the task
* to evaluate existing editing tools and to adapt them to the needs of  
the present project;
* to assist the editors in the encoding in XML/TEI of complex  
editorial findings;
* to implement ― on the basis of an existing framework  
(http://dare.uni-koeln.de/) ― solutions for the display of the  
critical apparatus;
* to contribute to the development of an TEI schema for edition meta-data;
* to further develop the technical framework with a view to  
standardized technologies and sustainability.

Appointment requirements are: either a university degree (Master) in  
computer science and a good knowledge of questions and methods used in  
the humanities, especially in edition philology or a university degree  
(Master) in a field related to the subject-matter of the edition  
project and in-depth knowledge in informatics. Eligible candidates  
should demonstrate an excellent knowledge of XML/TEI, XML-databases,  
XML editors and their customization, other XML-related standards and  
web technologies. In addition, some experience in the creation of  
print masters is desirable.
For further information see: http://ukoeln.de/F1JI1

Applicants for the positions in Arabic, Hebrew, and Latin Philosophy  
should be competent in more than one area. Appointment requirements  
are: a university degree and PhD in a field related to the  
subject-matter of the edition project (e.g. History of Philosophy,  
Classical Philology, Oriental Studies, Jewish Studies, etc.). Eligible  
candidates should demonstrate an excellent knowledge of either Arabic,  
Hebrew, or Latin, working knowledge of at least one of the other  
languages, and close familiarity with Medieval philosophy. The  
appointed editors are expected to work independently but in close  
collaboration with their colleagues.
For further information see: http://ukoeln.de/KYP7X

The University of Cologne is an equal opportunities employer.  
Applications of women are thus especially encouraged; applications of  
disabled persons will be given preferential treatment to those of  
other candidates with equal qualifications. Candidates should submit a  
cover letter that describes their research, two letters of  
recommendation, and a current curriculum vitae. To ensure full  
consideration, applications must be received by February 15, 2016.  
Please send your documents to:

Averroes Edition
Thomas-Institut
Universitätsstraße 22
50923 Köln

_redacted_(a)uni-koeln.de.

-- 
Dr. Franz Fischer
Cologne Center for eHumanities
Universität zu Köln, Universitätsstr. 22, D-50923 Köln
Telefon: +49 - (0)221 - 470 - 4056
_redacted_(a)uni-koeln.de

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
http://www.cceh.uni-koeln.de
http://www.i-d-e.de
http://www.thomasinstitut.uni-koeln.de

http://dixit.uni-koeln.de
http://guillelmus.uni-koeln.de
http://confessio.ie



