Subject: [dm-l] call for papers

Call for papers

Historiografías, revista de historia y teoría is an on-line biannual 
publication in three languages devoted to historiographical studies and 
theory of history. With the backing of worldwide specialists and 
professors from various universities, Historiografias was created in 
2010 as the brainchild of the research group assembled by Professor 
Gonzalo Pasamar at the University of Zaragoza (Spain), where its server 
is located: http://www.unizar.es/historiografias.

           As indicated in its Editorial Manifesto (see 
http://www.unizar.es/historiografias), Historiografías regards the study 
of historical writings as a field without boundaries, ranging across 
such disparate viewpoints as cultural and intellectual history, 
political history and biography, as well as epistemology and social 
theory, anthropology, sociology and history of science. Hence, the 
objective of the journal is twofold: 1) to examine all the forms the 
writing of history has adopted, without any geographical, chronological 
or cultural restrictions, from historiography in Antiquity to forms 
memories have adopted in other civilizations, including medieval and 
Renaissance writers, and modern ways of writing history all over the 
world, as well as current trends; 2) to give importance to historical 
epistemology and theory in general.

Historiografías calls for original papers to be included under its three 
headings: 1) “Historia y teoría”; 2) “Varia historiográfica”; and 3) 
“Crítica”. The content of these sections is as follows: “Historia y 
teoría” includes essays on historiography and theory and, where 
appropriate, may also cover single subjects. “Varia historiográfica” 
contains analyses of institutions, projects, debates, interviews, and 
scientific events relating to theory and historiographic reflection, in 
addition to a range of other articles (when the History and Theory 
section is devoted to a single issue). “Crítica” contains reviews of 
books and journals devoted to a single topic.

The journal accepts manuscripts in Spanish, English and French, with 
documents being formatted in Word. Works must be original, that is, not 
previously published, nor should they be committed for publication 
elsewhere. Authors must indicate at the beginning of the text the 
institution they work for, along with their professional address and 
email. Some key-words (no more than six) should be included below, in 
Spanish and English, along with an abstract in Spanish and English (no 
more than 100 words), and a profile (no more than eighty words) in 
Spanish and English.

The length of contributions is as follows: “Historia y teoría” and 
“Varia historiográfica”: 10,000 words maximum. This includes footnotes, 
bibliographic references and appendices. Graphical documents (pictures, 
tables, photos, texts, charts, etc.) may also be appended, but only if 
they are of good standard. In this case, their source should be 
indicated and, where appropriate, permission to publish may also be 
required. “Crítica”: 3,000 words, including footnotes and bibliographic 
references.
For further information, see “Instructions for Manuscripts Submission”, 
in http://www.unizar.es/historiografias

Original papers should be sent by email to this address: 
_redacted_(a)unizar.es

Manuscripts will be submitted for external assessment by at least two 
accepted experts on the subject.

--4366052035390647851-

