Subject:

CfP: Archival memory: institutions, texts, and shapes (Leeds 2018)
Publié le 31 août 2017 par Sébastien Barret	

Nous publions ici l’appel à communications suivant, pour le Congrès 
international de Leeds (IMC) de 2018, qui aura lieu du 2 au 5 juillet 2018:
Archival memory: institutions, texts, and shapes

via: https://drd.hypotheses.org/1628

Archival memory: institutions, texts, and shapes

Medieval charters and archives were a natural component of an 
institution’s memory: acts and deeds constituted primarily a way to keep 
and preserve the remembrance of a legal or para-legal action for the 
future. But beyond this evident fact, such documents could also be used 
to produce, or take part in, specific memorial discourses.

Three different levels of granularity are adequate to deal with the 
issue of “archival memory”: the individual document, the compilation, 
and the archives.

As for individual documents, foundation charters or deeds which were 
used as foundation charters by subsequent generations give numerous, yet 
diverse examples of the building of an archival memory. Single charters 
could also use a part of their text to directly or indirectly hint at 
their role as memorial objects, either in a more or less abstract way, 
or by using historical and pseudo-historical references as an element of 
their discourse. To name two examples, the preamble of the text was a 
place where the topic of memory could be developed; and the narratio 
exposing motives leading to a decision could place them in a historical 
and memorial context. Graphical components (script, layout, decoration…) 
may have been implemented as well in a memorial strategy. Silent 
imitations of previously granted charters, be it in the formulaic 
components, or in the style, shape, and ornament of the text may be seen 
as a memorial endeavour: indeed, studies on the influences of chanceries 
in the handwriting and formulary sometimes take for granted that papal 
bullae or imperial diplomas were available to be imitated, but the 
imitation might be an internal issue within the institution. Forgeries 
may also encompass a graphic and a textual component from the forger’s 
institution, and imitate the ornamental, scribal and textual components 
of previous in-house productions. Discriminating the inward efficiency 
(memoria) and the outward efficiency (claims and rights) in order to 
better understand the aims of such documents is an open field.

At a second level, compilations comprise obviously cartularies and 
“cartulary-chronicles”, but also other “archival books”. Books made out 
of archival material not only had often an explicit memorial component, 
but could also develop such a role in an implicit way, born of the 
selection, arrangement and presentation of the copied material. While 
much has been done on the most ancient cartularies, compilations from 
the later Middle Ages are still a relatively new, albeit already 
studied, field of research in that regard. As well as in individual 
documents, such compilations could retain graphic elements from their 
models (figured copies, reproduction of script, monograms and validation 
marks…) or add new ones in order to shape and stage the community and 
its memory (illuminations…).

Finally, the way documents were kept, their treatment at the hands of 
medieval archivists, the way archival “collections” were ordered (or 
not) gave another possibility for charters to participate in the 
creation of the memoria of an institution.

We welcome proposals for 20 minutes papers exploring the way charters, 
deeds, acts and related documents as well as their “by-products” were 
used to produce, participate in or reinforce given memorial discourses 
and/or structures, whether explicitly or implicitly. While memorial 
aspects of the question should be at the core of the papers, speakers 
may also reflect on the role such discourses had in the building of 
identities. These questions may be approached either from the point of 
view of the production of the documents or focussing on their reception, 
including their ancient and modern historiographical use.

Please send your title, abstract (300 words max.) and affiliation to 
_redacted_(a)cnrs-orleans.fr) and Dominique 
_redacted_(a)irht.cnrs.fr) before the 20 September 
2017. We hope to be able to fund each speaker with approx. 500 €.

--6861182805186220740-

