Subject: [dm-l] Digital and Practical Epigraphy/EpiDoc training (London)

We invite applications for a six-day training workshop in digital and practical epigraphy at the Institute of Classical Studies, University of London, 29 April – 4 May 2019.

The workshop will be organised by Gabriel Bodard (ICS) and Katherine McDonald (Exeter), with additional training provided by Charlotte Tupman (Exeter), Charles Crowther (Oxford), Valeria Vitale (ICS) and Caroline Barron (Birkbeck). There will be no charge for the workshop. There will be a limited number of bursaries available to assist students and other unfunded scholars with the costs of travel and accommodation, provided by the AHRC Early Career Leadership Fellowship ‘Connectivity and Competition’ (PI Katherine McDonald).

The focus of the workshop will be on skills for Greek and Latin epigraphy, including squeeze-making, photogrammetry, reflectance transformation imaging (RTI), and EpiDoc. EpiDoc (epidoc.sf.net) is a community of practice, recommendations and tools for the digital editing and publication of ancient texts based on TEI XML. No expert computing skills are required, but a working knowledge of Greek/Latin or other ancient language, epigraphy, and the Leiden Conventions will be assumed. The workshop is open to participants of all levels, from graduate students to professors and professionals. Although the focus is on Greek and Latin epigraphy, we welcome applications from those in other adjacent fields.

_redacted_(a)exeter.ac.uk by *Friday 15 February 2019,* including the following information:

        a brief description of your reason for interest
        your relevant background and experience
        if you would like to request a bursary, an estimate how much you would need.

If you have any questions before applying, please don’t hesitate to c_redacted_(a)sas.ac.uk).



==
Dr Gabriel BODARD
Reader in Digital Classics

Institute of Classical Studies
University of London
Senate House
Malet Street
London WC1E 7HU

_redacted_(a)sas.ac.uk
T: +44 (0)20 78628752

http://digitalclassicist.org/

--3531967251955928836-

