Subject:

Name: Susanna Allés Torrent

_redacted_(a)miami.edu

Article Title: Computer-Assisted Text Analysis for Resource-Scarce 
Literatures
Post type: Call for Papers

Post: Computer-Assisted Text Analysis for Resource-Scarce Literatures
24-25 April 2019
University of Miami, FL



Call for Papers
This two-day symposium aims to bring together scholars and researchers 
working with computational approaches to texts. The event targets a 
broad audience interested in the application of digital text analysis 
technology, as text mining, topic modeling, authorship detection, 
writing style analysis, text reuse, or more generally tasks performed 
through Natural Language Processing (NLP). These techniques have 
significant potential not only for the study of literature but also for 
the study of texts and language in general. The symposium aims to create 
an open forum for showcasing these techniques.



The event is also grounded in the idea that computational text analysis 
should be integrated not only in the academic research by faculty and 
their PhD students, but also in a pedagogical environment. The use of 
computational analysis opens up new questions in literary studies, and 
exposes students to many different ways of thinking about literature today.



Computer-aided literary studies still thus tend to be focused on 
literatures written in modern languages. NLP tools are quite developed 
for modern languages, especially for the modern English language. For 
medieval and premodern languages, due to their instability of 
orthographic forms, attempts to conduct computer-aided (thus, to a 
degree, systematic) research face many challenges to normalize and 
standardize their linguistic forms. Therefore, the symposium also aims 
to explore the use and challenge of using NLP tools for studying 
literatures written in underrepresented and historical languages, such 
as the medieval and premodern variants and precursors of Spanish, 
French, Latin, and Dutch. Therefore, a special focus will be on the 
preprocessing  routines available for these texts, such as 
lemmatization, by which we collect inflected forms under a single item 
or lemma, as well as challenges faced normalizing orthographic variation 
of historical texts and other languages with unstable orthographies. 
Among the international and national speakers we will have several 
experts on the topic.



Our envisioned program for the symposium is as follows: On the first 
day, there will be several workshops, including one devoted to 
integrating computer-assisted analysis in the classroom, which will 
offer an introduction to stylometry, visualization, and text-reuse. On 
the second day, there will be talks (30 min) that present ongoing 
research projects, methodologies, and challenges. The subject languages 
are preferably, but not limited to underrepresented and historical 
languages.

								

We are specifically interested in receiving proposals for contributions 
on one or more of the following topics:

Stylometry for authorship studies

Stylometry as an approach to literary study

Natural Language Processing and linguistic annotation

Lemmatizers for underrepresented modern languages and old languages
Text reuse detection

Normalization

Distributional semantics

Network analysis

Text visualization

We especially welcome contributions from those working with any type of 
textual corpora, preferably those conceived for a specific research and/ 
from a diachronic perspective. We conceive this symposium as an 
opportunity to share (best)-practices and broaden conversation, thus 
proposals can be on ongoing and experimental methodologies.

Confirmed Speakers:
Greta Franzini (Università Cattolica del Sacro Cuore)

Francisco Gago Jover (College of the Holly Cross)

Mike Kestemont (University of Antwerp)

Enrique Manjavacas  (University of Antwerp)

Marco Passarotti (Università Cattolica del Sacro Cuore)

Dennis Tenen (Columbia University)



Organization committee
Susanna Allés Torrent
Lindsay Thomas

Scientific committee
Susanna Allés Torrent
Alberto Cairo
Mitsunori Ogihara
Allison Schifani

Important dates
15 January 2018. Deadline for the submission of abstracts
30 January 2019. Notification of acceptance

24-25 April. Symposium



  Abstract submissions and format

We invite researchers to submit 500-word proposals (including footnotes 
but excluding the bibliography) in one single page related to any of the 
topics mentioned above. The format of the contributions will be 20 mins 
presentations followed by 10 min Q&amp;A. Title, name(s) and affiliation 
should appear and the prefered formats are .txt, .docx, .odt and pdf.

_redacted_(a)miami.edu and they will be 
reviewed by the scientific committee.

Languages
The official language of the symposium is English, but it is possible to 
submit a proposal also in Spanish, French, or Italian.



The symposium will be held with support from:
Department of Modern Languages and Literatures, University of Miami

College of Arts and Sciences
SEED You Choose Program
Center for the Humanities



In collaboration with:
University of Antwerp

The Digital Humanities Flanders (DHuF) research community, sponsored by 
the FWO

----
Time: 2019-01-07 at 15:51
IP Address: 46.18.45.37
Contact Form URL: https://digitalmedievalist.wordpress.com/news-post/

Sent by an unverified visitor to your site.

-- 
You received this message because you are subscribed to the Google 
Groups "Digital Medievalist" group.
To unsubscribe from this group and stop receiving emails from it, send 
_redacted_(a)googlegroups.com.
_redacted_(a)googlegroups.com.
To view this discussion on the web, visit 
https://groups.google.com/d/msgid/DMedievalist/163360d6ee0a4b4ca950c6a449a20f93%40wordpress.com.
For more options, visit https://groups.google.com/d/optout.



