Subject: [dm-l] Issue 2-2020 of journal tf-8?q?magazén?
Dear all,

with apologies for cross-posting, I am forwarding the call for papers of
the 2nd issue of the first number (2020) of the new DH jounal "magazén".
Please note that the deadline is close: August 15.

Best,
Paolo Monella

---



Call for Papers – Issue 2/2020 – “Fusions”
magazén | International Journal for Digital and Public Humanities
Venice Centre for Digital and Public Humanities (unive.it/vedph)
Department of Humanities, Ca’ Foscari University of Venice, Italy

Deadlines:
Abstract Submission – August 15, 2020
Abstract acceptance – August 30, 2020
Articles Submission – December 15, 2020
Prospective publication – June 2021

––––––––––

magazén | International Journal for Digital and Public Humanities
magazén is the interdisciplinary journal of the Venice Centre for
Digital and Public Humanities (VeDPH) based at the Department of
Humanities at Ca’ Foscari University of Venice undergoing double blind
peer review and published twice per year in print, digital copy and html
version in open access by Edizioni Ca’ Foscari. The VeDPH is founded
upon an initiative of excellence that aims at stimulating an
interdisciplinary methodological discourse to serve as a basis for the
collaborative development of durable, reusable, shared resources for
research and learning in the field of digital and public humanities. Its
disciplinary domains include Digital Textual Scholarship, Digital and
Public Art History, Digital and Public History, Digital Cultural
Heritage and Digital and Public Archaeology.

––––––––––

Call for Papers | Issue 2/2020
magazén is looking for contributors to its 2020 inaugural volume
entitled “Fusions”, which will devote also the second semestral issue of
the journal to the intertwining landscape emerging from the recent
development of digital and public humanities. As a matter of fact, in
the last two decades much effort was placed in defining separate
disciplinary fields, in order to canonise and validate the use of
digital methodologies or public approaches in the specific subsets of
the humanities. However, evidence suggests that digital and public
challenges facing singular disciplines are actually common to the entire
field of the humanities, thus favouring a cross-disciplinary approach
rather than thematic isolation. Indeed, the impact of digitisation and
public involvement offered a unique opportunity to the humanities: a
window for experimentation with merged methodologies, blended sharing
practices, joined representation modes, interpenetrated material
research. In this process new actors, factors and agents emerged that
are about to consolidate today’s landscape in the digital and public
humanities, although still on the search for standards and best
practices that could suit the entire field.
For its inaugural volume magazén is set to examine in two semestral
issues (Summer 2020 and Fall 2020) the concept of “fusions” as the very
backbone of recent developments in the realm of digital and public
humanities. Scholars are particularly invited to submit contributions
that span from theoretical debates to methodological reflections, also
comprising the examination of particular case studies.
See the full call for papers at:
https://edizionicafoscari.unive.it/en/edizioni4/riviste/magazen/info#details

––––––––––

Abstracts | Focus and Submission guidelines
For scholars interested in submitting a proposal for our second
semestral issue, please write an abstract of no more than 200 words
together with a short biographical note and the provisional title of the
paper. All materials should be sent by August 15, 2020 via email
(subject: “magazen 2/2020 – Call for Papers”) to the editorial board at
_redacted_(a)unive.it Notice of selection will be
given to authors within two weeks from submission deadline.
Finalised contributions are expected to be 6.000–9.000 words long (notes
and bibliography included) and will undergo double blind peer review.
Accepted languages are Italian and English, though all texts must have
an English abstract and stick to the editorial guidelines of Edizioni
Ca’ Foscari. Texts that shouldn’t comply with editorial guidelines won’t
be accepted. Please note that the author must secure all copyright
permissions (reproduction costs included) for images and other media.
The deadline for all accepted articles is December 15, 2020 and final
publication of the second issue is planned by June 2021.
_redacted_(a)unive.it).

--0226270452375912461-

